.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2020, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.haxx.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH curl_json_unescape 3 "16 September 2020" "libcurl 7.74.0" "libcurl Manual"
.SH NAME
curl_json_unescape - JSON unescapes the given string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <curl/curl.h>
.sp
.BI "char *curl_json_unescape(const char *" string
.BI ", const unsigned int "inlength ", unsigned int *" outlength ");"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function converts the given JSON escaped input string to a "plain string"
and returns that in an allocated memory area. All input characters that are
JSON escaped are converted into their normal representations.

If the \fBlength\fP argument is set to 0 (zero), \fIcurl_json_unescape(3)\fP
will use strlen() on the input \fIurl\fP string to find out the size.

If \fBoutlength\fP is non-NULL, the function will write the length of the
returned string in the integer it points to. This allows an escaped string
containing %00 to still get used properly after unescaping. Since this is a
pointer to an \fIint\fP type, it can only return a value up to INT_MAX so no
longer string can be unescaped if the string length is returned in this
parameter.

The returned string must freed using \fIcurl_free(3)\fP after use.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.74.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
A pointer to a null-terminated string or NULL if it failed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR curl_json_escape "(3), " curl_free "(3)," RFC 8259
